DOC: add feature docs for shared access key authentication (#40)
arcus-azure/arcus.webapi: docs/features/shared-access-key.md

---
title: "Authentication with shared access keys via ASP.NET Core authentication filters"
layout: default
---

> 

Reviewer: For example, what is shared access key authentication - Explains that it looks for an HTTP header and compares the value with your secret.

> 

Author: Yes.

The `Arcus.WebApi.Security` package provides an mechanism that uses shared access keys to authenticate users.
This authentication process consists of two parts:

1. Looks for the configured HTTP request header that contains the shared access key

> 2. Matches this value with the **Key Vault** secret that is requested via a `ICachedSecretProvider` or `ISecretProvider`

Reviewer: It still mentions Key Vault which is not the case, maybe they wrote there own.

I propose the following:
```suggestion
2. Shared access key matches the value with the secret stored, determined via configured secret provider
```

This attribute will then add authentication to the route(s) via shared access keys configurable on the attribute itself.

### Usage

The authentication requires a `ICachedSecretProvider` or `ISecretProvider` to be registered in services of the applications (normally in the `Startup` class):

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollections services)
{

>     services.AddScoped<ICachedSecretProvider>(serviceProvider => new MyCachedSecretProvider());

Author: Ah, yes that would be better!

```csharp
[ApiController]
[SharedAccessKeyAuthentication(headerName: "http-request-header-name", secretName: "shared-access-key-name")]
public class MyApiController : ControllerBase
{
    [HttpGet]
    [Route("authz/shared-access-key")]
    public Task<IActionResult> AuthorizedGet()
    {
        return Task.FromResult<IActionResult>(Ok());
    }
}
```

## Arcus.WebApi.Security.SharedAccessKeyAuthenticationFilter

### Introduction

The `SharedAccessKeyAuthenticationFilter` can be added to the request filters in an <span>ASP.NET</span> Core application.
This filter will then add authetication to all routes via a shared access key configurable on the filter itself.

### Usage

The authentication requires a `ICachedSecretProvider` or `ISecretProvider` to be registered in services of the applications (normally in the `Startup` class):

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollections services)
{
    services.AddScoped<ICachedSecretProvider>(serviceProvider => new MyCachedSecretProvider());
    services.AddMvc();
}
```

After that, you can add the filter to the MVC services:

> ```csharp

Author: Aha, yes.

---
title: "Authentication with shared access keys via ASP.NET Core authentication filters"
layout: default
---

> ## Arcus.WebApi.Security.SharedAccessKeyAuthentication

Reviewer: You can remove this header as we only have this for now.

The `Arcus.WebApi.Security` package provides an mechanism that uses shared access keys to authenticate users.
This authentication process consists of two parts:

1. Looks for the configured HTTP request header that contains the shared access key

> 2. Matches this value with the configured **Key Vault** secret

Reviewer: Actually, this is not true, we will look in whatever secret provider is configured

The package allows two ways to configure this type of authentication mechanmism in an <span>ASP.NET</span> application:
- [Shared access key attribute](#ArcusWebApiSecuritySharedAccessKeyAuthenticationAttribute) allows local authentication on  `Controller` or method level
- [Shared access key filter](#ArcusWebApiSecuritySharedAccessKeyAUthenticationFilter) allows global authentication 

> ## Arcus.WebApi.Security.SharedAccessKeyAuthenticationAttribute

Reviewer: Maybe it would make sense to change this to `Enforce shared access key per controller or operation`?

Reviewer: Don't forget to update the link above

### Introduction

The `SharedAccessKeyAuthenticationAttribute` can be added on both `Controller` and method level in an <span>ASP.NET</span> Core application.
This attribute will then add authentication to the route(s) via shared access keys configurable on the attribute itself.

### Usage

The authentication requires a `ICachedSecretProvider` or `ISecretProvider` to be registered in services of the applications (normally in the `Startup` class):

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollections services)
{

>     services.AddScoped<ICachedSecretProvider>(serviceProvider => new CachedSecretProvider(new MySecretProvider()));

Reviewer: We can also use our extension but this is ok!

    services.AddMvc();
}
```

After that, you can freely use the attribute on the route (single method) or routes (multiple methods or `Controller` level) that requires authentication:

```csharp
[ApiController]
[SharedAccessKeyAuthentication(headerName: "http-request-header-name", secretName: "shared-access-key-name")]
public class MyApiController : ControllerBase
{
    [HttpGet]
    [Route("authz/shared-access-key")]
    public Task<IActionResult> AuthorizedGet()
    {
        return Task.FromResult<IActionResult>(Ok());
    }
}
```

> ## Arcus.WebApi.Security.SharedAccessKeyAuthenticationFilter

Reviewer: Maybe it would make sense to change this to `Enforce shared access key globally` and move this before our other approach to stimulate this one.

Reviewer: Don't forget to update the link above

Author: I don't follow, what do you want to update? I changed the short description with `Enforce...`.

Reviewer: Where did you update this?

When I look at the latest version I still see this, but might be doing something wrong then 🤔 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4345663/57446237-8e326f00-7254-11e9-860f-101e6dd22a3a.png)

Author: Could you rephrase what you want to change from the original?

Reviewer: The screenshot is a good example - The line above my comment (the ##) should be something along my suggestion
